federalist 14 objections to the proposed
constitution from extent of territory
answered
from the new york packet friday november
30th
1787 madison to the people of the state
of new york
we have seen the necessity of the union
as our bulwark against foreign danger
as the conservator of peace amongst
ourselves as the guardian of our
commerce and other common interests
as the only substitute for those
military establishments which have
subverted the liberties of the old world
and as the proper antidote for the
diseases of faction which have proved
fatal to other popular governments
and of which alarming symptoms have been
betrayed by our own
all that remains within this branch of
our inquiries is to take notice of an
objection that may be drawn from the
great extent of country which the union
embraces
a few observations on this subject will
be the more proper as it is perceived
that the adversaries of the new
constitution are availing themselves of
the prevailing prejudice with regard to
the practicable sphere of republican
administration in order to supply by
imaginary difficulties the want of those
solid objections which they endeavor in
vain to find
the error which limits republican
government to a narrow district
has been unfolded and refuted in
preceding papers
i remark here only that it seems to owe
its rise in prevalence chiefly to the
confounding of a republic with a
democracy
applying to the former reasonings drawn
from the nature of the latter
the true distinction between these forms
was also adverted to on a former
occasion
it is that in a democracy the people
meet and exercise the government in
person
in a republic they assemble and
administer it by their representatives
and agents
a democracy consequently will be
confined to a small spot
a republic may be extended over a large
region
to this accidental source of the error
may be added the artifice of some
celebrated authors whose writings have
had a great share in forming the modern
standard of political opinions
being subjects either of an absolute or
limited monarchy
they have endeavoured to heighten the
advantages or palliate the evils of
those forms by placing in comparison the
vices and defects of the republican and
by citing as specimens of the latter the
turbulent democracies of ancient greece
and modern italy
under the confusion of names it has been
an easy task to transfer to a republic
observations applicable to a democracy
only
and among others the observation that it
can never be established but among a
small number of people living within a
small compass of territory
such a fallacy may have been the less
perceived as most of the popular
governments of antiquity were of the
democratic species
and even in modern europe to which we
owe the great principle of
representation
no example is seen of a government
wholly popular and founded at the same
time wholly on that principle
if europe has the merit of discovering
this great mechanical power in
government
by the simple agency of which the will
of the largest political body may be
con-centered
and its force directed to any object
which the public good requires
america can claim the merit of making
the discovery the basis of unmixed and
extensive republics it is only to be
lamented that any of her citizens should
wish to deprive her of the additional
merit of displaying its full efficacy in
the establishment of the comprehensive
system now under her consideration
as the natural limit of a democracy is
that distance from the central point
which will permit the most remote
citizens to assemble as often as their
public functions demand
and will include no greater number than
can join in those functions
so the natural limit of a republic is
that distance from the center which will
barely allow the representatives to meet
as often as may be necessary for the
administration of public affairs
can it be said that the limits of the
united states exceed this distance
it will not be said by those who
recollect that the atlantic coast is the
longest side of the union
that during the term of 13 years the
representatives of the states have
been almost continually assembled and
that the members from the most distant
states are not chargeable with greater
intermissions of attendance than from
those states in the neighborhood of
congress
that we may form a justice estimate with
regard to this interesting subject let
us resort to the actual dimensions of
the union
the limits as fixed by the treaty of
peace are on the east the atlantic
on the south the latitude of 31 degrees
on the west the mississippi
and on the north an irregular line
running in some instances beyond the
45th degree
in others falling as low as the 42nd the
southern shore of lake erie lies below
that latitude
computing the distance between the 31st
and the 45th degrees
it amounts to 973 common miles
computing it from 31 to 42 degrees to
764 miles and a half
taking the mean for the distance the
amount will be 868 miles and
three-fourths
the mean distance from the atlantic to
the mississippi does not probably exceed
750 miles
on a comparison of this extent with that
of several countries in europe
the practicability of rendering our
system commensurate to it appears to be
demonstrable
it is not a great deal larger than
germany where a diet representing the
whole empire is continually assembled
or then poland before the late
dismemberment where another national
diet was the depository of the supreme
power
passing by france and spain we find that
in great britain
inferior as it may be in size the
representatives of the northern
extremity of the island have as far to
travel to the national council as will
be required of those of the most remote
parts of the union
favorable as this view of the subject
may be some observations remain which
will place it in a light still more
satisfactory
in the first place it is to be
remembered that the general government
is not to be charged with the whole
power of making and administering laws
its jurisdiction is limited to certain
enumerated objects
which concern all the members of the
republic but which are not to be
attained by the separate provisions of
any
the subordinate governments which can
extend their care to all those other
subjects which can be separately
provided for
will retain their due authority and
activity word proposed by the plan of
the convention to abolish the
governments of the particular state
its adversaries would have some ground
for their objection though it would not
be difficult to show that if they were
abolished the general government would
be compelled by the principle of
self-preservation
to reinstate them in their proper
jurisdiction
a second observation to be made is that
the immediate object of the federal
constitution
is to secure the union of the 13
primitive states
which we know to be practicable and to
add to them such other states as may
arise in their own bosoms
or in their neighborhoods which we
cannot doubt to be equally practicable
the arrangements that may be necessary
for those angles and fractions of our
territory which lie on our northwestern
frontier
must be left to those whom further
discoveries and experience will render
more equal to the task
let it be remarked in the third place
that the intercourse throughout the
union will be facilitated by new
improvements
roads will everywhere be shortened and
kept in better order
accommodations for travelers will be
multiplied and ameliorated
an interior navigation on our eastern
side will be open throughout
or nearly throughout the whole extent of
the 13 states
the communication between the western
and atlantic districts and between
different parts of each will be rendered
more and more easy by those numerous
canals with which the beneficence of
nature has intersected our country
and which part finds it so little
difficult to connect and complete
a fourth and still more important
consideration is that as almost every
state will on one side or other be a
frontier and will thus find in regard to
its safety and inducement to make some
sacrifices for the sake of the general
protection
so the states which lie at the greatest
distance from the heart of the union and
which
of course may partake least of the
ordinary circulation of its benefits
will be at the same time immediately
contiguous to foreign nations
and will consequently stand on
particular occasions in greatest need of
its strength and resources
it may be inconvenient for georgia or
the states forming our western or
northeastern borders
to send their representatives to the
seat of government but they would find
it more so to struggle alone against an
invading enemy or even to support alone
the whole expense of those precautions
which may
be dictated by the neighborhood of
continual danger
if they should derive less benefit
therefore from the union in some
respects
than the less distant states they will
derive greater benefit from it in other
respects and thus the proper equilibrium
will be maintained throughout
i submit to you my fellow citizens these
considerations in full confidence that
the good sense which has so often marked
your decisions
will allow them their due weight and
effect and that you will never suffer
difficulties however formidable in
appearance
or however fashionable the error on
which they may be founded
to drive you into the gloomy and
perilous scene into which the advocates
for disunion would conduct you
hearken not to the unnatural voice which
tells you that the people of america
knit together as they
are by so many chords of affection can
no longer live together as members of
the same family can no longer continue
the mutual guardians of their mutual
happiness
can no longer be fellow citizens of one
great respectable and flourishing empire
hearken not to the voice which
petulantly tells you that the form of
government recommended for your adoption
is a novelty in the political world
that it has never yet had a place in the
theories of the wildest projectors
that it rashly attempts what is
impossible to accomplish
no my countrymen shut your ears against
this unhallowed language
shut your hearts against the poison
which it conveys the kindred blood which
flows in the veins of american citizens
the mingled blood which they have shed
in defense of their sacred rights
consecrate their union and excite horror
at the idea of becoming aliens rivals
enemies and if novelties are to be
shunned believe me the most alarming of
all novelties the most wild of all
projects the most rash of all attempts
is that of rendering us in pieces in
order to preserve our liberties and
promote our happiness
but why is the experiment of an extended
republic to be rejected
merely because it may comprise what is
new is it not the glory of the people of
america that whilst they have paid a
decent regard to the opinions of former
times and other nations they have not
suffered a blind veneration for
antiquity
for custom and for names to overrule the
suggestions of their own good sense the
knowledge of their own situation and the
lessons of their own experience
to this manly spirit posterity will be
indebted for the possession
and the world for the example of the
numerous innovations displayed on the
american theater in favor of private
rights and public happiness
had no important step been taken by the
leaders of the revolution for which
precedent could not be discovered
no government established of which an
exact model did not present itself
the people of the united states might at
this moment have been numbered among the
melancholy victims of misguided councils
must at best be laboring under the
weight of some of those forms which
have crushed the liberties of the rest
of mankind happily for america happily
we trust for the whole human race
they pursued a new and more noble course
they accomplished a revolution
which has no parallel in the annals of
human history
they reared the fabrics of governments
which have no model on the face of the
globe
they form the design of a great
confederacy which it is incumbent on
their successors to improve and
perpetuate
if their works betray imperfections we
wonder at the fewness of them
if they heard most in the structure of
the union this was the work most
difficult to be executed
this is the work which has been new
modeled by the act of your convention
and it is the act on which you are now
to deliberate and to decide
publius